---
layout: post
title: "Lena Henningsen to Deliver a Speech at Nanjing University of the Arts on Lu Xun in Lianhuanhua on 9 October"
date: 2025-10-03
categories: jekyll update
image: assets/images/LenaNanjing2025.jpg
---

On 9 October 2025 at 14:30, ChinaComx PI Lena Henningsen [will deliver a speech](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/zpwwJBrS_XEkgQ0f67uJxw) titled "Reframing LuXun and his literature in Lianhuanhua" as part of the 2025 German-Chinese Media Summer Academy for Youth at the [School of Media Arts and Communication, Nanjing University Of the Arts](https://media.nua.edu.cn/). The talk will be held at the Lecture Hall (报告厅) of the [Art Museum of Nanjing University of the Arts](http://www.nuamuseum.org/nuamuseum/index.html) (AMNUA).

For previous seasons of the summer academy at Nanjing University of the Arts, see [here](https://media.nua.edu.cn/2023/0904/c4854a101682/page.htm).

Abstract:

> In this presentation, I argue that adaptation and transmedial processes are constitutive for Chinese lianhuanhua. The rise of lianhuanhua in the early 20th century was intricately linked to the business of producing comic adaptations of the latest movies; later, adaptations of film, of fiction and other texts including diaries continued into the lianhuanhua field of the Mao era. Moreover, lianhuanhua artists consciously employed, or quoted, topoi and tropes from other fields of culture, including caricature, propaganda posters and the visual arts more general ranging from traditional painting styles to modernist woodcut.
In this contribution, I will therefore trace the purposes, styles and effects of adaptation across lianhuanhua production of the 20th century focusing on lianhuanhua that adapt the fiction or the biography of Lu Xun. Adaption of other works into lianhuanhua was a means to make knowledge available to social constituencies not fully literate or lacking access to other media outlets with knowledge ranging from practical knowledge to knowledge about the latest cinematic or literary works; adaptation also presented theatre plays, early modern and premodern literatures and – in the post-Mao years – TV series. Adaptation thus at times was highly didactic; adaptation was also a means to communicate clear political messages about distinct topics. However, following scholars of adaptation studies (Hutcheon, Sanders or Baetens) I want to emphasize that works of adaptation never are “just” derivative works duplicating or parroting a message that was communicated in the alleged original work. Rather, they need to be considered as works in their own right. In their recombination of previous elements and in their (re)interpretation of the alleged original (or, sometimes: originals) they tend to find their own voices and their own messages in their distinct combination of image and text. Lianhuanhua that are adapted from literary texts may seem to have flattened or oversimplified the original text; however, very often, the visuals add new ambivalence into the story, thus playing to and at the same time counteracting official political messages and updating the original work into the present context. Acknowledging the importance of adaptation for the lianhuanhua genre thus not only points to a core characteristic of this form of art, but also to the wider processes of adaptation in (popular) cultural production in China.
